federalist 15 the insufficiency of the
present confederation to preserve the
union
for the independent journal hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
in the course of the preceding papers i
have endeavoured my fellow citizens
to place before you in a clear and
convincing light the importance of union
to your political safety and happiness
i have unfolded to you a complication of
dangers to which you would be exposed
should you permit that sacred knot which
binds the people of america together be
severed or dissolved by ambition or by
avarice
by jealousy or by misrepresentation in
the sequel of the inquiry through which
i propose to accompany you
the truths intended to be inculcated
will receive further confirmation from
facts and arguments hitherto unnoticed
if the road over which you will still
have to pass should in some places
appear to you tedious or irksome you
will recollect that you are in quest of
information on the subject the most
momentous which can engage the attention
of a free people
that the field through which you have to
travel is in itself spacious
and that the difficulties of the journey
have been unnecessarily increased by the
mazes with which sophistry has beset the
way
it will be my aim to remove the
obstacles from your progress
in as compendious a manner as it can be
done without sacrificing utility to
dispatch
in pursuance of the plan which i have
laid down for the discussion of the
subject
the point next in order to be examined
is the insufficiency of the present
confederation to the preservation of the
union
it may perhaps be asked what need there
is of reasoning or proof to illustrate a
position which is not either
controverted or doubted
to which the understandings and feelings
of all classes of men ascend
and which in substance is admitted by
the opponents as well as by the friends
of the new constitution
it must in truth be acknowledged that
however these may differ in other
respects
they in general appear to harmonize in
this sentiment at least
that there are material imperfections in
our national system
and that something is necessary to be
done to rescue us from impending anarchy
the facts that support this opinion are
no longer objects of speculation
they have forced themselves upon the
sensibility of the people at large
and have at length extorted from those
whose mistaken policy has had the
principal share in precipitating the
extremity at which we are arrived
a reluctant confession of the reality of
those defects in the scheme of our
federal government
which have been long pointed out and
regretted by the intelligent friends of
the union
we may indeed with propriety be said to
have reached almost the last stage of
national humiliation
there is scarcely anything that can
wound the pride or degrade the character
of an independent nation which we do not
experience
are there engagements to the performance
of which we are held by every tie
respectable among men
these are the subjects of constant and
unblushing violation
do we owe debts to foreigners and to our
own citizens contracted in a time of
imminent peril for the preservation of
our political existence
these remain without any proper or
satisfactory provision for their
discharge
have we valuable territories and
important posts in the possession of a
foreign power which
by expressed stipulations ought long
since to have been surrendered
these are still retained to the
prejudice of our interests not less than
of our rights
are we in a condition to resent or to
repel the aggression
we have neither troops nor treasury nor
government i mean for the union
are we even in a condition to
remonstrate with dignity the just
imputations on our own faith in respect
to the same treaty ought first to be
removed are we entitled by nature and
compact to a free participation in the
navigation of the mississippi
spain excludes us from it is public
credit an indispensable resource in time
of public danger
we seem to have abandoned its cause as
desperate and irretrievable
is commerce of importance to national
wealth ours is at the lowest point of
declension
is respectability in the eyes of foreign
powers a safeguard against foreign
encroachments
the imbecility of our government even
forbids them to treat with us
our ambassadors abroad are the mere
pageants of mimic sovereignty
is a violent and unnatural decrease in
the value of land a symptom of national
distress
the price of improved land in most parts
of the country is much lower than can be
accounted
for by the quantity of wasteland at
market and can only be fully explained
by that want of private and public
confidence which are so alarmingly
prevalent among all ranks
and which have a direct tendency to
depreciate property of every kind
is private credit the friend and patron
of industry
that most useful kind which relates to
borrowing and lending is reduced within
the narrowest limits
and this still more from an opinion of
insecurity than from the scarcity of
money
to shorten an enumeration of particulars
which can afford neither pleasure nor
instruction
it may in general be demanded that
indication is there of national disorder
poverty and insignificance that could
befall a community so peculiarly blessed
with natural advantages as we are which
does not form a part of the dark
catalogue of our public misfortunes
this is the melancholy situation to
which we have been brought by those very
maxims and councils which would now
deter us from adopting the proposed
constitution
and which not content with having
conducted us to the brink of a precipice
seem resolved to plunge us into the
abyss that awaits us below
here my countrymen impelled by every
motive that ought to influence an
enlightened people
let us make a firm stand for our safety
our tranquility our dignity
our reputation let us at last break the
fatal charm which has too long seduced
us from the paths of felicity
and prosperity it is true as has been
before observed that facts
too stubborn to be resisted have
produced a species of
general assent to the abstract
proposition that there exist material
defects in our national system
but the usefulness of the concession on
the part of the old adversaries of
federal measures
is destroyed by a strenuous opposition
to a remedy
upon the only principles that can give
it a chance of success
while they admit that the government of
the united states is destitute of energy
they contend against conferring upon it
those powers which are requisite to
supply that energy
they seem still to aim at things
repugnant and irreconcilable
at an augmentation of federal authority
without a diminution of state authority
at sovereignty in the union and complete
independence in the members
they still in fine seem to cherish with
blind devotion
the political monster of an imperium in
imperial
this renders a full display of the
principal defects of the confederation
necessary
in order to show that the evils we
experience do not proceed from minute or
partial imperfections
but from fundamental errors in the
structure of the building which cannot
be amended otherwise than by an
alteration in the first principles and
main pillars of the fabric
the general and radical vice in the
construction of the existing
confederation
is in the principle of legislation for
states or governments in their corporate
or collective capacities
and as contradistinguished from the
individuals of which they consist
though this principle does not run
through all the powers delegated to the
union
yet it pervades and governs those on
which the efficacy of the rest depends
except as the rule of appointment the
united states has an indefinite
discretion to make requisitions for men
and money but they have no authority to
raise either by regulations extending to
the individual citizens of america
the consequence of this is that though
in theory their resolutions concerning
these objects are laws
constitutionally binding on the members
of the union yet in practice they are
mere recommendations which the states
observe or disregard at their option
it is a singular instance of the
capriciousness of the human mind
that after all the admonitions we have
had from experience on this head
there should still be found men who
object to the new constitution
for deviating from a principle which has
been found the bane of the old
and which is in itself evidently
incompatible with the idea of government
a principle in short which if it is to
be executed at all
must substitute the violent and
sanguinary agency of the sword to the
mild
influence of the magistracy there is
nothing absurd or impracticable in the
idea of a league or alliance between
independent nations for certain defined
purposes precisely stated in a treaty
regulating all the details of time
space circumstance and quantity leaving
nothing to future discretion
and depending for its execution on the
good faith of the parties
compacts of this kind exist among all
civilized nations
subject to the usual vicissitudes of
peace and war of observance and
non-observance as the interests or
passions of the contradicting powers
dictate
in the early part of the present century
there was an epidemical rage in europe
for the species of compacts from which
the politicians of the times fondly
hoped for benefits which were never
realized
with a view to establishing the
equilibrium of power and the peace of
that part of the world
all the resources of negotiation were
exhausted and triple and quadruple
alliances were formed but they were
scarcely formed before they were broken
giving an instructive but afflicting
lesson to mankind
how little dependence is to be placed on
treaties which have no other sanction
than the obligations of good faith and
which oppose general considerations of
peace and justice to the impulse of any
immediate interest or passion
if the particular states in this country
are disposed to stand in a similar
relation to each other
and to drop the project of a general
discretionary superintendence
the scheme would indeed be pernicious
and would entail upon us
all the mischiefs which have been
enumerated under the first head
but it would have the merit of being at
least consistent and practicable
abandoning all views toward a
confederate government
this would bring us to a simple alliance
offensive and defensive and would place
us in a situation to be alternate
friends and enemies of each other
as our mutual jealousies and rival ships
nourished by the intrigues of foreign
nations
should prescribe to us but if we are
unwilling to be placed in this perilous
situation
if we still will adhere to the design of
a national government
or which is the same thing of a
superintending power under the direction
of a common council
we must resolve to incorporate into our
plan those ingredients which may be
considered as forming the characteristic
difference between a league and a
government
we must extend the authority of the
union to the persons of the citizens
the only proper object of government
government
implies the power of making laws it is
essential to the idea of a law
that it be attended with a sanction or
in other words a penalty or punishment
for disobedience
if there be no penalty annexed to
disobedience the resolutions or commands
which pretend to be laws will in fact
amount to nothing more than advice or
recommendation
this penalty whatever it may be can only
be inflicted in two ways
by the agency of the courts and
ministers of justice or by military
force
by the coercion of the magistracy or by
the coercion of arms
the first kind can evidently apply only
to men the last kind must of necessity
be employed against bodies politic
or communities or states it is evident
that there is no process of a court by
which the observance of the laws can in
the last resort be enforced
sentences may be denounced against them
for violations of their duty
but these sentences can only be carried
into execution by the sword
in an association where the general
authority is confined to the collective
bodies of the communities that compose
it
every branch of the laws must involve a
state of war and military execution must
become the only instrument of civil
obedience
such a state of things can certainly not
deserve the name of government
nor would any prudent man choose to
commit his happiness to it
there was a time when we were told that
breaches by the states of the regulation
of the federal authority were not to be
expected
that a sense of common interest would
preside over the conduct of their
respective members
and would be get a full compliance with
all the constitutional requisitions of
the union
this language at the present day would
appear as wild as a great part of what
we now hear from the same quarter will
be thought when we shall have received
further lessons from that best oracle of
wisdom
experience it at all times betrayed an
ignorance of the true springs by which
human conduct is actuated
and belied the original inducements to
the establishment of civil power
why has government been instituted at
all because the passions of men will not
conform to the dictates of reason and
justice without constraint
has it been found that bodies of men act
with more rectitude or greater
disinterestedness than individuals
the contrary of this has been inferred
by all accurate observers of the conduct
of mankind
and the inference is founded upon
obvious reasons
regard to reputation has a less active
influence when the infamy of a bad
action is to be divided among a number
than when it is to fall singly upon one
a spirit of faction which is apt to
mingle its poison in the deliberations
of all bodies of men
will often hurry the persons of whom
they are composed into improprieties and
excesses
for which they would blush in a private
capacity
in addition to all this there is in the
nature of sovereign power
an impatience of control that disposes
those who are invested with the exercise
of it
to look with an evil eye upon all
external attempts to restrain or direct
its operations
from this spirit it happens that in
every political association which is
formed upon the principle of uniting in
a common interest and number of lesser
sovereignties
there will be found a kind of eccentric
tendency in the subordinate or inferior
orbs
by the operation of which there will be
a perpetual effort in each to fly off
from the common center
this tendency is not difficult to be
accounted for it has its origin in the
love of power
power controlled or abridged is almost
always the rival and enemy of that power
by which it is controlled or abridged
this simple proposition will teach us
how little reason there is to expect
that the persons entrusted with the
administration of the affairs of the
particular members of a confederacy
will at all times be ready with perfect
good humor and an unbiased regard to the
public wheel
to execute the resolutions or decrees of
the general authority
the reverse of this results from the
constitution of human nature
if therefore the measures of the
confederacy cannot be executed without
the intervention of the particular
administrations
there will be little prospect of their
being executed at all
the rulers of the respective members
whether they have a constitutional right
to do it or not
will undertake to judge the propriety of
the measures themselves
they will consider the conformity of the
thing proposed or required to their
immediate interests or aims
the momentary conveniences or
inconveniences that would attend its
adoption
all this will be done and in a spirit of
interested and suspicious scrutiny
without that knowledge of national
circumstances and reasons of state which
is essential to a right judgment
and with that strong predilection in
favor of local objects which can hardly
fail to mislead the decision
the same process must be repeated in
every member of which the body is
constituted
and the execution of the plans framed by
the councils of the whole
will always fluctuate on the discretion
of the ill-informed and prejudiced
opinion of every part
those who have been conversant in the
proceedings of popular assemblies
who have seen how difficult it often is
where there is no exterior pressure of
circumstances to bring them to
harmonious resolutions on important
points
will readily conceive how impossible it
must be to induce a number of such
assemblies deliberating at a distance
from each other at different times
and under different impressions long to
cooperate in the same views and pursuits
in our case the concurrence of 13
distinct sovereign wills is requisite
under the confederation to the complete
execution of every important measure
that proceeds from the union
it has happened as was to have been
foreseen the measures of the union have
not been executed
the delinquencies of the states have
step by step matured themselves to an
extreme which has at length
arrested all the wheels of the national
government and brought them to an awful
stand
congress at this time scarcely possessed
the means of keeping up the forms of
administration till the states can have
time to agree upon a more substantial
substitute for the present shadow of a
federal government
things did not come to this desperate
extremity at once
the causes which have been specified
produced at first only unequal and
disproportionate degrees of compliance
with the requisitions of the union
the greater deficiencies of some states
furnish the pretext of example and the
temptation of interest to the compliant
or to the least delinquent states
why should we do more in proportion than
those who are embarked with us
in the same political voyage why should
we consent to bear more than our proper
share of the common burden
these were suggestions which human
selfishness could not withstand
in which even speculative men who looked
forward to remote consequences could not
without hesitation combat
each state yielding to the persuasive
voice of immediate interest or
convenience
has successfully withdrawn its support
till the frail and tottering edifice
seems ready to fall upon our heads and
to crush us beneath its ruins
publius